each Nest has 2270 eggs but there are so
many predators and scavengers that would
love to eat an egg or hatchling that in
the wild perhaps just one might make it
to adulthood by collecting them and
raising them in captivity their chances
of survival are greatly increased
unfortunately she doesn't know we're
trying to help her
okay it makes you jump but that's
exactly what it's designed to do this
big display of power and strength and
force is trying to drive us away from
the area what do you think Jack you like
here some estimates suggest there are
only 250 animals left in the wild
nothing to ensure their survival you
need a firm hand and a steady nerve
yep no see ahead yeah so I know that
looked pretty brutal but we need now to
keep her in the water to buy Jackson
time to be able to dig up these eggs
she's back poised again ready you can
see what she's just done to the stick
with a couple of little snaps okay she's
preparing herself again here she comes
the Orinoco crocodile is a really rather
remarkable species of croc it has a
snout that's kind of an intermediate
shape between those of the true
crocodiles and the gharial very very
thin quite narrow that means that it can
be driven through the water very fast
this is really good for hunting actually
in the water itself hunting fish hunting
water birds at the edge of the water but
look back down the body and you still
have that classic broad muscular shape
the base of the tail is the place where
they store an awful lot of fat and
that's quite broad on this animal which
is a good sign it means she's in good
shape the eyes though is something
that's really caught my attention
they're almost a kind of emerald green I
don't think I've seen a crocodile that's
had quite such piercing green eyes
before
but
there is something unbelievably
threatening about the way that a
crocodile just sinks down into the water
like that and all of a sudden a croc
that's three three-and-a-half meters
long and could weigh a quarter of a ton
just disappears disappears completely
we're gonna yeah we've got the eggs man
you got them yeah I'm right behind you
okay rod be her eyes on her at about 3
meters long she's as big as any female
crocodilian will get males get
substantially bigger but eggs and tiny
hatchlings are utterly vulnerable in the
wild we can now make sure this brood
will be raised safe from predators until
they're old enough to take care of
themselves when they'll be released back
into the wild it's simple but very
effective crocodiles have a reputation
for being cold hard dinosaurs mindless
killing machines but you can see that's
far from the truth these animals are
incredibly protective mothers I mean she
has this instinct to look after her
offspring and she's willing to put
herself in danger do that